====================================
Symbolic Execution of Linux Binaries
====================================

.. contents::

In this tutorial, we will show how to symbolically (or concolically) execute *existing* Linux programs, *without*
modifying their source code. In the `Testing a Simple Program <../TestingMinimalProgram.rst>`_ tutorial, we
instrumented the source code with S2E instructions to inject symbolic values. This tutorial shows how to do this
directly from the program's command line.

To do so, we use the ``s2e.so`` shared library and ``LD_PRELOAD``. This library intercepts the call to the ``main``
function and inserts user-configured symbolic arguments.

Obtaining and compiling ``s2e.so``
----------------------------------

The ``s2e.so`` library can be found in the ``guest`` folder of the S2E distribution and is built during the standard
S2E build process. It can also be built by running ``make guest-tools-install``. This will create ``guest-tools32`` and
``guest-tools64`` in ``$S2EDIR/build-s2e/$S2EPREFIX/bin`` (remember that by default ``$S2EPREFIX`` is equal to
``opt``). Copy the directory matching your guest's architecture into the guest virtual machine.

Configuring S2E for use with ``s2e.so``
---------------------------------------

``s2e.so`` communicates with several S2E plugins in order to restrict symbolic execution to the program of interest.
The S2E configuration file must contain default settings for these plugins, as follows:

``s2e.so`` communicates process module information to both the ``RawMonitor`` and ``LinuxMonitor`` plugins. However,
only **one** of these plugins can be enabled at any one time. ``LinuxMonitor`` is preferred over ``RawMonitor`` because
it provides more information. However it can only be used with a modified `Linux kernel <../BuildingLinux.rst>`_.

.. code-block:: lua

    plugins = {
      -- Enable S2E custom opcodes
      "BaseInstructions",

      -- Track when the guest loads programs
      "LinuxMonitor",

      -- Alternatively, RawMonitor may be used
      -- "RawMonitor",
    }

Using ``s2e.so``
----------------

The ``s2e.so`` library must be preloaded with your binary using ``LD_PRELOAD``. ``s2e.so`` intercepts the program's
entry point invocation, checks environment variables for the desired configuration and configures symbolic execution.

For example, the following example invokes ``echo`` from GNU Coreutils making arguments `arg1` and `arg2` symbolic.
The execution path is terminated after ``echo`` returns::

    S2E_SYM_ARGS="1 2" LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/guest/s2e.so /bin/echo arg1 arg2
    /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd kill 0 "echo done"

The ``s2ecmd`` utility allows the user to control S2E from the guest's command line. Here, we ask it to kill the
execution path after ``echo`` returns. It is important to do so otherwise S2E will run forever and the 100s of paths
generated by ``echo`` will eventually wait indefinitely at the prompt.

The ``s2e.so`` library supports the ``S2E_SYM_ARGS`` environment variable. This environment variable allows the user to
specify which arguments should be considered symbolic. If ``S2E_SYM_ARGS`` is not used all arguments are considered
concrete. When specifying symbolic arguments ``<ID_0>`` corresponds to the program's name (i.e. ``argv[0]``).

::

    S2E_SYM_ARGS="<ID_0> <ID_1> .. <ID_N>"       Mark argument <ID_N> as symbolic

Analyzing large programs with concolic execution
------------------------------------------------

Depending on the program under analysis, symbolic execution may get stuck in a large state space. In general it is
better to use `concolic execution <Concolic.rst>`_. The following command runs ``echo`` in concolic mode, based on the
concrete parameter ``abc`` (i.e. the first path will print ``abc``, while the others will print other strings).

.. code-block:: console

    S2E_SYM_ARGS="1" LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/guest/s2e.so /bin/echo abc
    /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd kill 0 "echo done"

You may also want to do the following to prevent the program from forking in the kernel:

* Add ``> /dev/null`` to prevent forking when printing symbolic content
* Don't print crashes in the syslog via ``sudo sysctl -w debug.exception-trace=0``
* Prevent core dumps from being created with ``ulimit -c 0``

What about other symbolic input?
--------------------------------

You can easily feed symbolic data to your program via ``stdin``. The idea is to pipe the symbolic output of one program
to the input of another. Symbolic output can be generated using the ``s2ecmd`` utility.

.. code-block:: console

    /path/to/guest/s2ecmd/s2ecmd symbwrite 4 | cat

The command above will pass 4 symbolic bytes to ``cat``.

The easiest way to have your program read symbolic data from *files* (other than ``stdin``) currently involves a
ramdisk. You need to redirect the symbolic output of ``s2ecmd symbwrite`` to a file residing on the ramdisk, then have
your program under test read that file. On many Linux distributions, the ``/tmp`` filesystem resides in RAM, so using a
file in ``/tmp`` works. This can be checked using the ``df`` command: it should print something similar to ``tmpfs 123
456 123 1% /tmp``.
